README.md, before:

# @jadestudios/Discord-Music-Player


[![CodeQL](https://github.com/jadestudios/discord-music-player/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jadestudios/discord-music-player/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)

This is a fork of Discord Music Player by SushiBtw. This fork is changed to use play-dl instead of ytdl-core, and some under-the-hood changes. It is completely compatible with DMP as known of the user facing functions/ errors will be changed. This fork will also implement all upstream releases.

Latest working: az13+
Anything lower is unstable or doesn't work. Also, minor updates may not work sometimes. Best is to use whole number updates past az13.

---
### Note: This is the v9 version of Discord Music Player for Discord.JS v13!

Discord Music Player is a powerful [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) module that allows you to easily implement music commands.
**Everything** is customizable, and everything can be done using this package - **there are no limitations!**

This package supports YouTube Videos & Playlists, Spotify Songs & Playlists, Apple Music Songs & Playlists.
Package from version v7.0.0 is fully maintained by [SushiBtw](https://github.com/SushiBtw).

### Requirements:
- [Discord.js v14 or v13](https://www.npmjs.com/package/discord.js),
- [Node.JS v16](https://nodejs.org/),

# Installation
*Node.JS v16 or newer is required to run this module.*
```sh
npm install --save @jadestudios/discord-music-player
```
Install **@discordjs/opus**:
```sh
npm install --save @discordjs/opus
```
**Install [FFMPEG](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html)!**

# Documentation
**Discord Music Player documentation: [https://discord-music-player.js.org/](https://discord-music-player.js.org/)**

### **Need some help?**
Feel free to join [Discord-Music-Player Discord Server](https://discord.gg/6fejZNsmFC) and ask us about DMP.

# Getting Started
**The code bellow, will show you how to use DMP in your code.**

*Please define your **Player** after the **client/bot** definition.*

[!] Remember to include the related voice **Intents** at the client options. [!]
```js
const Discord = require("discord.js");
const client = new Discord.Client({
    intents: [Intents.FLAGS.GUILDS, Intents.FLAGS.GUILD_MESSAGES, Intents.FLAGS.GUILD_VOICE_STATES]
});
const settings = {
    prefix: '!',
    token: 'YourBotTokenHere'
};

const { Player } = require("discord-music-player");
const player = new Player(client, {
    leaveOnEmpty: false, // This options are optional.
});
// You can define the Player as *client.player* to easily access it.
client.player = player;

client.on("ready", () => {
    console.log("I am ready to Play with DMP 🎶");
});

client.login(settings.token);
```

# Example Usage
```js
const { RepeatMode } = require('discord-music-player');

client.on('messageCreate', async (message) => {
    const args = message.content.slice(settings.prefix.length).trim().split(/ +/g);
    const command = args.shift();
    let guildQueue = client.player.getQueue(message.guild.id);

    if(command === 'play') {
        let queue = client.player.createQueue(message.guild.id);
        await queue.join(message.member.voice.channel);
        let song = await queue.play(args.join(' ')).catch(err => {
            console.log(err);
            if(!guildQueue)
                queue.stop();
        });
    }

    if(command === 'playlist') {
        let queue = client.player.createQueue(message.guild.id);
        await queue.join(message.member.voice.channel);
        let song = await queue.playlist(args.join(' ')).catch(err => {
            console.log(err);
            if(!guildQueue)
                queue.stop();
        });
    }

    if(command === 'skip') {
        guildQueue.skip();
    }

    if(command === 'stop') {
        guildQueue.stop();
    }

    if(command === 'removeLoop') {
        guildQueue.setRepeatMode(RepeatMode.DISABLED); // or 0 instead of RepeatMode.DISABLED
    }

    if(command === 'toggleLoop') {
        guildQueue.setRepeatMode(RepeatMode.SONG); // or 1 instead of RepeatMode.SONG
    }

    if(command === 'toggleQueueLoop') {
        guildQueue.setRepeatMode(RepeatMode.QUEUE); // or 2 instead of RepeatMode.QUEUE
    }

    if(command === 'setVolume') {
        guildQueue.setVolume(parseInt(args[0]));
    }

    if(command === 'seek') {
        guildQueue.seek(parseInt(args[0]) * 1000);
    }

    if(command === 'clearQueue') {
        guildQueue.clearQueue();
    }

    if(command === 'shuffle') {
        guildQueue.shuffle();
    }

    if(command === 'getQueue') {
        console.log(guildQueue);
    }

    if(command === 'getVolume') {
        console.log(guildQueue.volume)
    }

    if(command === 'nowPlaying') {
        console.log(`Now playing: ${guildQueue.nowPlaying}`);
    }

    if(command === 'pause') {
        guildQueue.setPaused(true);
    }

    if(command === 'resume') {
        guildQueue.setPaused(false);
    }

    if(command === 'remove') {
        guildQueue.remove(parseInt(args[0]));
    }

    if(command === 'createProgressBar') {
        const ProgressBar = guildQueue.createProgressBar();
        
        // [======>              ][00:35/2:20]
        console.log(ProgressBar.prettier);
    }
})
```

### Events:
```js
// Init the event listener only once (at the top of your code).
client.player
    // Emitted when channel was empty.
    .on('channelEmpty',  (queue) =>
        console.log(`Everyone left the Voice Channel, queue ended.`))
    // Emitted when a song was added to the queue.
    .on('songAdd',  (queue, song) =>
        console.log(`Song ${song} was added to the queue.`))
    // Emitted when a playlist was added to the queue.
    .on('playlistAdd',  (queue, playlist) =>
        console.log(`Playlist ${playlist} with ${playlist.songs.length} was added to the queue.`))
    // Emitted when there was no more music to play.
    .on('queueDestroyed',  (queue) =>
        console.log(`The queue was destroyed.`))
    // Emitted when the queue was destroyed (either by ending or stopping).    
    .on('queueEnd',  (queue) =>
        console.log(`The queue has ended.`))
    // Emitted when a song changed.
    .on('songChanged', (queue, newSong, oldSong) =>
        console.log(`${newSong} is now playing.`))
    // Emitted when a first song in the queue started playing.
    .on('songFirst',  (queue, song) =>
        console.log(`Started playing ${song}.`))
    // Emitted when someone disconnected the bot from the channel.
    .on('clientDisconnect', (queue) =>
        console.log(`I was kicked from the Voice Channel, queue ended.`))
    // Emitted when deafenOnJoin is true and the bot was undeafened
    .on('clientUndeafen', (queue) =>
        console.log(`I got undefeanded.`))
    // Emitted when there was an error in runtime
    .on('error', (error, queue) => {
        console.log(`Error: ${error} in ${queue.guild.name}`);
    });
```

# Passing custom data

### Queue
While running the `Queue#createQueue()` method you can pass a `options#data` object to hold custom data.
This can be made in two ways:
```js
// Pass custom data
await player.createQueue(message.guild.id, {
    data: {
        queueInitMessage: message,
        myObject: 'this will stay with the queue :)',
        more: 'add more... there are no limitations...'
    }
});
// Or by using
queue.setData({
    whatever: 'you want :D'
});

// Access custom data
let queue = player.getQueue(message.guild.id);
let initMessage = queue.data.queueInitMessage;
await initMessage.channel.send(`This message object is hold in Queue :D`);
```

### Song or Playlist
While running the `Queue#play()`/Queue#playlist() method you can pass a `options#data` object to hold custom data.
This can be made in two ways:
```js
// Play the song
let song = await queue.play('Born in the USA!');
// Set song data
song.setData({
    initMessage: message
});

// Play the playlist
let playlist = await queue.playlist('https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDLGxnP4y2mGKGEqwxWTRkd3HtrrVTMdU');
// Set playlist data (will set data for each song in the playlist)
song.setData({
    initMessage: message
});

// Access custom data
let queue = player.getQueue(message.guild.id);
let { initMessage } = queue.nowPlaying.data;
await initMessage.channel.send(`This message object is hold in Song :D`);
```

Commit message:

Bumped version
Changed readme and version

README.md, after:

# @jadestudios/Discord-Music-Player


[![CodeQL](https://github.com/jadestudios/discord-music-player/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jadestudios/discord-music-player/actions/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)

This is a fork of Discord Music Player (DMP) by SushiBtw. This fork is changed to use play-dl instead of ytdl-core, and some under-the-hood changes. For more info on any changes, please check out the release page.

The client facing API is not changed and will be relatively the same as DMP. Results using those API calls may be different from the original.

This fork will attempt to implement all upstream PRs and releases.

| Version | Status |
---|---|
az19 | Latest - Based on DMP 9.0.2
az18 | Last Native Discord.JS V13 - Based on  DMP 8.3.0
az13 - az17 | Deprecated - Security issue in Discord Voice
az1 - az12 | Non-Functional

Minor updates may not work sometimes as well.

---
### Note: This is the v9 version of Discord Music Player for Discord.JS v13!

Discord Music Player is a powerful [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) module that allows you to easily implement music commands.
**Everything** is customizable, and everything can be done using this package - **there are no limitations!**

This package supports YouTube Videos & Playlists, Spotify Songs & Playlists, Apple Music Songs & Playlists.
Package from version v7.0.0 is fully maintained by [SushiBtw](https://github.com/SushiBtw).

### Requirements:
- [Discord.js v14 or v13](https://www.npmjs.com/package/discord.js),
- [Node.JS v16](https://nodejs.org/),

# Installation
*Node.JS v16 or newer is required to run this module.*
```sh
npm install --save @jadestudios/discord-music-player
```
Install **@discordjs/opus**:
```sh
npm install --save @discordjs/opus
```
**Install [FFMPEG](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html)!**

# Documentation
**Discord Music Player documentation: [https://discord-music-player.js.org/](https://discord-music-player.js.org/)**

### **Need some help?**
Feel free to join [Discord-Music-Player Discord Server](https://discord.gg/6fejZNsmFC) and ask us about DMP.

# Getting Started
**The code bellow, will show you how to use DMP in your code.**

*Please define your **Player** after the **client/bot** definition.*

[!] Remember to include the related voice **Intents** at the client options. [!]
```js
const Discord = require("discord.js");
const client = new Discord.Client({
    intents: [Intents.FLAGS.GUILDS, Intents.FLAGS.GUILD_MESSAGES, Intents.FLAGS.GUILD_VOICE_STATES]
});
const settings = {
    prefix: '!',
    token: 'YourBotTokenHere'
};

const { Player } = require("discord-music-player");
const player = new Player(client, {
    leaveOnEmpty: false, // This options are optional.
});
// You can define the Player as *client.player* to easily access it.
client.player = player;

client.on("ready", () => {
    console.log("I am ready to Play with DMP 🎶");
});

client.login(settings.token);
```

# Example Usage
```js
const { RepeatMode } = require('discord-music-player');

client.on('messageCreate', async (message) => {
    const args = message.content.slice(settings.prefix.length).trim().split(/ +/g);
    const command = args.shift();
    let guildQueue = client.player.getQueue(message.guild.id);

    if(command === 'play') {
        let queue = client.player.createQueue(message.guild.id);
        await queue.join(message.member.voice.channel);
        let song = await queue.play(args.join(' ')).catch(err => {
            console.log(err);
            if(!guildQueue)
                queue.stop();
        });
    }

    if(command === 'playlist') {
        let queue = client.player.createQueue(message.guild.id);
        await queue.join(message.member.voice.channel);
        let song = await queue.playlist(args.join(' ')).catch(err => {
            console.log(err);
            if(!guildQueue)
                queue.stop();
        });
    }

    if(command === 'skip') {
        guildQueue.skip();
    }

    if(command === 'stop') {
        guildQueue.stop();
    }

    if(command === 'removeLoop') {
        guildQueue.setRepeatMode(RepeatMode.DISABLED); // or 0 instead of RepeatMode.DISABLED
    }

    if(command === 'toggleLoop') {
        guildQueue.setRepeatMode(RepeatMode.SONG); // or 1 instead of RepeatMode.SONG
    }

    if(command === 'toggleQueueLoop') {
        guildQueue.setRepeatMode(RepeatMode.QUEUE); // or 2 instead of RepeatMode.QUEUE
    }

    if(command === 'setVolume') {
        guildQueue.setVolume(parseInt(args[0]));
    }

    if(command === 'seek') {
        guildQueue.seek(parseInt(args[0]) * 1000);
    }

    if(command === 'clearQueue') {
        guildQueue.clearQueue();
    }

    if(command === 'shuffle') {
        guildQueue.shuffle();
    }

    if(command === 'getQueue') {
        console.log(guildQueue);
    }

    if(command === 'getVolume') {
        console.log(guildQueue.volume)
    }

    if(command === 'nowPlaying') {
        console.log(`Now playing: ${guildQueue.nowPlaying}`);
    }

    if(command === 'pause') {
        guildQueue.setPaused(true);
    }

    if(command === 'resume') {
        guildQueue.setPaused(false);
    }

    if(command === 'remove') {
        guildQueue.remove(parseInt(args[0]));
    }

    if(command === 'createProgressBar') {
        const ProgressBar = guildQueue.createProgressBar();
        
        // [======>              ][00:35/2:20]
        console.log(ProgressBar.prettier);
    }
})
```

### Events:
```js
// Init the event listener only once (at the top of your code).
client.player
    // Emitted when channel was empty.
    .on('channelEmpty',  (queue) =>
        console.log(`Everyone left the Voice Channel, queue ended.`))
    // Emitted when a song was added to the queue.
    .on('songAdd',  (queue, song) =>
        console.log(`Song ${song} was added to the queue.`))
    // Emitted when a playlist was added to the queue.
    .on('playlistAdd',  (queue, playlist) =>
        console.log(`Playlist ${playlist} with ${playlist.songs.length} was added to the queue.`))
    // Emitted when there was no more music to play.
    .on('queueDestroyed',  (queue) =>
        console.log(`The queue was destroyed.`))
    // Emitted when the queue was destroyed (either by ending or stopping).    
    .on('queueEnd',  (queue) =>
        console.log(`The queue has ended.`))
    // Emitted when a song changed.
    .on('songChanged', (queue, newSong, oldSong) =>
        console.log(`${newSong} is now playing.`))
    // Emitted when a first song in the queue started playing.
    .on('songFirst',  (queue, song) =>
        console.log(`Started playing ${song}.`))
    // Emitted when someone disconnected the bot from the channel.
    .on('clientDisconnect', (queue) =>
        console.log(`I was kicked from the Voice Channel, queue ended.`))
    // Emitted when deafenOnJoin is true and the bot was undeafened
    .on('clientUndeafen', (queue) =>
        console.log(`I got undefeanded.`))
    // Emitted when there was an error in runtime
    .on('error', (error, queue) => {
        console.log(`Error: ${error} in ${queue.guild.name}`);
    });
```

# Passing custom data

### Queue
While running the `Queue#createQueue()` method you can pass a `options#data` object to hold custom data.
This can be made in two ways:
```js
// Pass custom data
await player.createQueue(message.guild.id, {
    data: {
        queueInitMessage: message,
        myObject: 'this will stay with the queue :)',
        more: 'add more... there are no limitations...'
    }
});
// Or by using
queue.setData({
    whatever: 'you want :D'
});

// Access custom data
let queue = player.getQueue(message.guild.id);
let initMessage = queue.data.queueInitMessage;
await initMessage.channel.send(`This message object is hold in Queue :D`);
```

### Song or Playlist
While running the `Queue#play()`/Queue#playlist() method you can pass a `options#data` object to hold custom data.
This can be made in two ways:
```js
// Play the song
let song = await queue.play('Born in the USA!');
// Set song data
song.setData({
    initMessage: message
});

// Play the playlist
let playlist = await queue.playlist('https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDLGxnP4y2mGKGEqwxWTRkd3HtrrVTMdU');
// Set playlist data (will set data for each song in the playlist)
song.setData({
    initMessage: message
});

// Access custom data
let queue = player.getQueue(message.guild.id);
let { initMessage } = queue.nowPlaying.data;
await initMessage.channel.send(`This message object is hold in Song :D`);
```
